FIFO(7)                    Linux Programmer’s Manual                   FIFO(7)

NAME
       fifo - first-in first-out special file, named pipe

DESCRIPTION
       A  FIFO  special  file (a named pipe) is similar to a pipe, except that it is accessed as part of the file system.  It
       can be opened by multiple processes for reading or writing.  When processes are exchanging data via the FIFO, the ker-
       nel  passes all data internally without writing it to the file system.  Thus, the FIFO special file has no contents on
       the file system; the file system entry merely serves as a reference point so that processes can access the pipe  using
       a name in the file system.

       The  kernel  maintains exactly one pipe object for each FIFO special file that is opened by at least one process.  The
       FIFO must be opened on both ends (reading and writing) before data can be passed.  Normally, opening the  FIFO  blocks
       until the other end is opened also.

       A  process  can open a FIFO in non-blocking mode.  In this case, opening for read only will succeed even if no-one has
       opened on the write side yet, opening for write only will fail with ENXIO (no such device or address) unless the other
       end has already been opened.

       Under Linux, opening a FIFO for read and write will succeed both in blocking and non-blocking mode.  POSIX leaves this
       behavior undefined.  This can be used to open a FIFO for writing while there are no readers available.  A process that
       uses both ends of the connection in order to communicate with itself should be very careful to avoid deadlocks.

NOTES
       When  a  process tries to write to a FIFO that is not opened for read on the other side, the process is sent a SIGPIPE
       signal.

       FIFO special files can be created by mkfifo(3), and are indicated by ls -l with the file type 'p'.

SEE ALSO
       mkfifo(1), open(2), pipe(2), sigaction(2), signal(2), socketpair(2), mkfifo(3), pipe(7)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 3.22 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, and information about
       reporting bugs, can be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.

Linux                             2008-12-03                           FIFO(7)
